hey guys welcome back to the channel
this week we're going to be looking at
2016's the monster
in the movie a mother and daughter drive
down an isolated road when their car
suddenly breaks down by a forest and
they crash into an injured wall but when
the animal mysteriously disappears it
becomes clear that they're not alone and
must fight for their survival to not be
killed by whatever's in the woods
in this video we'll look at how to
escape and not be killed by the monster
the movie starts off with our main
character lizzie a young child getting
up at 7am starting the day
she makes herself breakfast and cleans
up various beer cans and liquor bottles
afterwards she wakes up her mother kathy
and collects her dirty laundry
it becomes clear that she's a lot more
mature than her mom and today she has to
be driven back to her father since her
parents are separated then there's a
flashback of a screaming match between
the mother and daughter they argue if
the mom should go to one of her place
but the young girl doesn't really want
her there
after about 20 seconds the two begin
insulting each other
[ __ ] you [ __ ] you to me like that you
[ __ ] you [ __ ] you i hate you
you when the flashback is over they're
in a dark forest during the evening and
it seems like there's no one around for
miles
kathy stopped by the road to discuss
whether to keep going since it's pretty
late lazy tells her that her dad is
probably still up waiting for her so the
two go back inside and continue driving
a few minutes go by when one of the
tires suddenly breaks and they spin out
of control
once the car faces the road again an
injured bloody wolf is seen
and they crash minutes later they wake
up under both sides may injure it's
still in the middle of the night and
raining the mother notices that her
wrist is broken but fortunately the girl
is okay
however the car won't turn on and
they're stuck on this little stretch of
road
after trying to start the car a few more
times kathy tells her daughter to call
9-1-1
when the operator picks up lizzie does
her best describing what's happened
the person on the phone asks where they
are and they give a rough estimation of
the last place they remembered however
that was a highway exit about 30 minutes
ago
unfortunately they don't know the exact
location so it will take some time to
arrive
what the girls can do here is use the
phone's gps to locate where they are
it's shown that they have a pretty
modern smartphone and a solid connection
over the phone
so it's not unreasonable to assume that
they can connect to the internet via
mobile data and get their location
and even if they can't the gps feature
on a phone works even without the
internet you can get the coordinates and
give that to the operator
this will help the paramedics save a lot
of time trying to find them
if they manage to arrive earlier the
mother and daughter can get rescued
before the monster starts attacking them
so they go back outside to see the
damage on the car and it's quite bad
with bits of the wolf
all over the cooling rub the mother then
says that lizzie should call her dad
since this will probably take a while
she calls him too and describes how
she's really scared and they hit a wolf
but since they don't know where they are
he can't really do anything then there's
another flashback of the mother by a
refrigerator late at night
she goes outside to the garbage bin and
digs out an alcohol bottle
she keeps telling herself not to drink
it but eventually does so anyways and
completes the entire thing
the daughter then wakes up and sees that
the mother threw up in the toilet
and lies passed out in the bathroom she
hugs her and sleeps on the floor as well
back in the woods the two stand in front
of the animal and look at it wondering
if it's dead or not
the mother then digs out a large tooth
out of one of the wounds and decides
that it's best to get back into the car
since the wolf was probably fighting
with something much bigger that's still
out here some time goes by and the rain
gets increasingly more intense we also
begin hearing growling sounds coming
from the woods
after lizzie put some bandages on their
wounds a tow truck finally shows up
however when the car stops in front of
them lizzy notices that the wolf is gone
the worker called jessie walks towards
them and asks if they're alright
kathy mentions that a wrist is broken
and they hit a wall but other than that
they're okay
the man tells them that he'll look at
the car and repair it since it can't be
towed in its current condition but this
will take some time so they can't leave
for a while he also takes all of their
belongings and locks them in his truck
thinking they will drive with them after
a quick repair
now here it's probably not the best idea
to have jessie fix the car the tooth
they pulled out is a sign that there's a
large potentially dangerous animal close
by
this is further indicated by the
growling noises that are consistently
coming from the forest
what they can do is inform the tow truck
driver that there are dangerous wild
animals around if he knew this jessie
would probably want to drive away from
this area and take the girls with him
but perhaps more importantly they should
leave to get to a hospital during the
crash both the mother and daughter had
their head slammed on the dashboard
even though they're not seriously hurt
not all injuries are instantly visible
so staying here for what could be hours
with untreated wounds waiting to get
proper medical treatment isn't a good
idea also we don't know exactly where
the movie takes place
it was shot in ottawa ontario which is
one of the most populated cities in
canada
now even though there are parts of it
that are pretty isolated towards the end
of the movie we can see what appears to
be a few residential houses in the
background indicating that civilization
is quite near and easily reachable with
a short drive
since they don't know how long it will
take for the ambulance to arrive they
could probably convince the man to just
take them to the nearest hospital which
wouldn't be too far away
but perhaps the easiest solution is to
have jessie call 9-1-1 again and explain
where the girls are since he just drove
down the road and can explain how to get
here
anyways while he repairs the car the
mother and daughter discuss what's
happened to the wolf the daughter
remarks that neither dogs nor
wolves have such enormous teeth but
kathy tells her that she should just
call her dad again
however the phone is inside lizzy's bag
in the tow truck
she goes outside to jessie's car to get
it however the door is locked
she asks for his keys but the man says
that he'll be out in just a second
following this lizzie notices a blood
trail leading into the woods where the
wall flies it's even more injured and
torn apart than before
we also see that behind her is a large
black creature that slowly backs
away from her then we get another
flashback where lizzy walks over to her
mother who is asleep on the couch
she puts a knife to her throat
whispering how she hates her and that
kathy should just get out of her life
back in the forest lizzy goes into the
car again and talks to her mom
she tells her that something else
further injured and ate the wolf
meanwhile jesse is still underneath the
truck he begins hearing the growls and
looks around
afterwards the mother wonders where the
ambulance is and why it's taking so long
she then calls jesse and says that he
should hurry up following a brief
silence they begin questioning if he's
even still
down there we then see that the only
thing that remains is the flashlight he
was carrying
the mother starts honking to get his
attention
when they don't get an answer kathy goes
to see where he is
the daughter says that she doesn't want
her to go outside however the mother
begins feeling a little bit annoyed that
lizzie is so scared
she looks for jesse and only sees his
toolbox then there is that growling
noise again
a few seconds later one of jessie's arms
is thrown on the windshield of the car
the two begin to realize that they're in
serious danger and decide to hide in the
car and wait for the ambulance to arrive
lizzie begins crying saying she wants
her dad the mother tries starting their
car again but
nothing seems to work suddenly the mame
jesse crawls out of the mud towards his
truck
he comes closer inch by inch the girls
hesitate thinking about what they should
do
eventually he arrives at the door crawls
up and tries opening the truck but it's
locked
he grabs his keys but needs to look for
the right one back in the other car
lizzie says that she can see it
looking at them they honk at jesse in an
attempt to get his attention so he can
turn around and see the monster
eventually he looks but can't see
anything then he gets pulled underneath
the car and gets killed by the creature
when he's dead lizzie begins crying
again now when they wait in the car
lizzie and cathy are very visible with
the lights on and even though it seems
like it would make them more noticeable
it's actually a pretty good idea since
there are many clues that the monster
stays out of the light however when they
honk to get jessie's attention they're
clearly giving their position away
letting the beast outside know exactly
where they are as a rule of thumb the
creature is attracted by
sound and repelled by light especially
if it's pointed directly at it
and as jesse crawls back they should
quickly help him because he has the keys
to a working car
they should be safe because their
headlights would scare the creature away
of course it's risky since the monster
might get to them but it's also the only
way out of here
i mean the monster it was to the left of
cathy's car and instead of walking
directly to jesse and killing him
it decided to walk all the way around
the vehicle to avoid the headlights so
if cathy goes out there to get his keys
instead of just honking at him it's
pretty unlikely that she gets attacked
we also saw that the creature threw the
arm at the car this
obviously shows that it knows where the
people are meaning that just sitting
there virtually guarantees your death so
they could get out check for the keys
and drive away
after jesse's death we get another
flashback where the daughter is in her
room the parents are in an intense fight
where the father looks for the keys
it's shown that lizzy is hiding them so
he can't drive away
her parents end up going into a room and
yelling at her for the keys she denies
having them but the dad fishes them out
of the sheets and takes them
when it's clear that he's driven off the
mother slaps her kid
back in the car they're still stuck and
are slowly running out of options
lizzie wants to know what exactly is
after them but the mother doesn't have a
clue
even though the daughter is still crying
the mother says that she'll carefully
sneak back out to jesse's truck it's
still open and his keys might be nearby
jesse's body is no longer there but it's
possible that he dropped them
she takes a look outside but it's
unclear where they are then
out of nowhere one of lizzy's stuffed
animal makes a loud noise
the batteries are quickly ripped out and
they hide by lying on the seats kathy
takes another look to see if the monster
is anywhere close
luckily it seems like the air is clear
when everything goes totally silent the
creature breaks the car
window drags out the mother and starts
attacking her as it's violently
scratching her the ambulance comes down
the road with the blaring horns
the animal gets scared away and leaves
the mother the paramedics take the mom
and kid to start giving them the help
they need but they don't instantly drive
away instead
they still want to find the tow truck
driver now this moment
is also a little bit strange because the
monster doesn't immediately run away at
the side of the car
it stares for a second this means that
the person driving the ambulance should
have seen that on the road is an
enormous
violent animal attacking humans the
paramedics should have seen this with
ease and act much quicker when getting
kathy and lizzy so when it's clearly
taking too long the mother asks the
driver to just leave but she tells her
to remain calm
then the windshield is ripped out by the
monster and it starts attacking the car
moments later the paramedic is taken out
of her seat and killed by the creature
the mother hits it with a flashlight
after which it slowly turns to her
then it loudly screams which is the
first time we see how this thing looks
now even though it's never stated out
right this creature is probably blind to
some degree the extremely gray and
cloudy eyes can be an indication that
they're not in the best condition
and this would make a lot of sense the
only people that are ever attacked are
the ones making a lot of noise the
mother got bitten after the stuffed
animal made a sound
and jesse is killed when he's working on
the car which is quite noisy
this is another piece of information
that can be extremely valuable later on
so when it confronts the mother it runs
away after looking at the flashlight
kathy then realizes that they have to
use their chance
she quickly jumps into the driver's seat
and speeds off just when they think they
made it getting off the road the monster
ramps the ambulance from the side and
tips it over
the mother and daughter then pass out
again during this sequence
this might be a little bit picky but
they drive the ambulance in the same
direction that the monster runs to so
the girls are basically following it
suppose they would have taken a few
seconds to turn the car around
and drive in the opposite direction that
way they could have probably avoided
getting hit there would be a lot more
distance between them and the monster
wouldn't have a head start
as they both wake up again they're even
more injured and think about what they
can do to finally escape the mother
takes the radio in the car and tries
calling for help but no one responds
then we begin to hear the growling noise
again shortly after the creature
scratches out the ambulance
it works its way around the car until it
sees kathy and lizzy again
even though they have nothing to protect
themselves with it runs away when the
mother shines a flashlight at it this is
perhaps the clearest evidence we get
that it's afraid of the light
and it would fit into the overall theme
of the movie as it's mentioned a few
times
it will be afraid
unless you're still like the light
that's what night lights are for right
and even though it's just something
childish the mother says to calm down
her kid
these themes are played into very
heavily indicating that it really is
avoiding bright areas
some time goes by and the mother begins
loudly coughing up blood she then comes
up with a solution
she will make a fire and scream to
attract the monster's attention which
will allow the daughter to escape and be
free
afterwards she'll extinguish the flame
and sacrifice herself
cathy collects some items to make a
torch and explains the plan to her
daughter but she doesn't really like the
idea of going off alone
the mother responds that lizzie has to
do it no matter what
she knows that she'll die and needs her
daughter to accept that fact
at this point we know that the monster
is attracted to sound so instead of
going out there herself the two can
create
some kind of sound distraction with a
noisy toy or maybe
leaving on the radio and turning up the
volume then the girls can quietly leave
with a flashlight and a torch which they
can use to defend themselves in case the
monster finds them the two can go back
to where the other cards were to get the
phone out of the back of jessie's truck
and with a lot of luck they might even
find the keys he dropped and drive away
anyways she then stands outside and
screams for the monster making enough of
a distraction for the younger one to run
away in the distance we begin to hear
the creature
she then puts out the torch and only
seconds later the monster jumps out
scratching and biting her several times
then however the daughter starts
attacking the beast
she pounds it with a stick but it
doesn't do much damage it turns to her
and screams but it once again runs away
when she happens to point the flashlight
at it
the mother slowly dies while the
daughter stands over her body
lizzie then crawls over to the ambulance
truck in there next to her stuffed
animal is a lighter which she takes then
in a corner with the rest of the
medicine she sees an aerosol spray and
grabs it as well
i think you guys can see where this is
going she hides in the closet in the
back of the truck and turns on the noisy
stuffed animal
a few seconds go by and the creature
rushes into the back of the car
flailing at the toy she pokes her head
out and tries running away
only a couple steps outside the being
goes after her the two face off in the
woods and lizzy says that she's no
longer afraid
she tells it to attack and when it
finally does she snaps on the lighter
and uses the can to spray the flammable
fluid at it with one short burst the
monster erupts in a big flame and slowly
stops breathing
here we see that the plan we outlined
earlier would most likely have worked if
both the mother and daughter get the
torch and cause some kind of distraction
in the ambulance they could run away
the monster would go towards the noise
in the truck while the pair would
quietly escape
if the creature ends up finding them the
mother could light the torch and use it
to either scare it away or fight back
aggressively
that plan seems a lot safer than letting
a very young
scared child run off into the woods
alone with no means to defend herself
and no idea where to go
so after defeating the monster she
stands over it and looks at its face
there's one more loud growl but then it
lies motionless on the floor after a few
more hits with a stick
in the final flashback we see the
daughter lying underneath her bed
as she gets woken up by her mother they
talk about how they don't actually hate
each other however their relationship is
very complicated because kathy struggles
with a lot of things in general but the
mother assures her that when lizzie
grows up
her life will be amazing when it slowly
turns into daytime in the forest lizzie
walks through the woods talking about
how monsters are real and how they're
always watching from the dark however
only some of them are visible and she's
no
longer afraid so those are some ways to
beat the monster
as always let me know if i missed
anything anyways thank you so much for
watching
i'll see you in the next one bye guys
you